Normalization: reduces redundancies, optimize queries, simplify data maintenance

Types:
    1. Unnormalized Form (UNF):
        Data is in raw state, without any Normalization applied
        contains repetiting groups or arrays
        Exa: In customers table, where single customer has multiple phone numbers and addresses in the same row

    2. First Normal Form (1NF):
        To eliminate repetiting groups, ensuring atomicity
        Each row should only contain indivisible values (atomic values - no arrays, sets, multi valued attributes)
        Exa: phone numbers are divided, only one number per row
        what's happening here: many phone no are in same row for a customer
    
    2. Second Normal Form (2NF):
        Goal: Eliminate partial dependency.
        Rules: Must be in 1NF, every non-key column must depend on the entire primary key (not just part of it)
        Exa: If the table has a composite key (StudentID, CourseID), and Name only depends on StudentID
        in this case, course id will be moved to next row as per 1NF and we dont want that
        so we are splitting the table into Student table(has st id and name) and enrollments table (has s id, course id, grade)
        what's happening here: a column is not dependent on pk, its just there


    3. Third Normal Form (3NF):
        Goal: Eliminate transitive dependency.
        Rules: Must be in 2NF,
        Non-key columns should not depend on other non-key columns.
        Every non-primary key column in a table should only be directly dependent on the primary key, not on another non-key column.
        Exa: If DepartmentName depends on DepartmentID, and DepartmentID depends on StudentID,
        here only student id is primary key, D name and D id are non primary key
        so we are spilitting the table where one has student as primary key and another as D id as pk
        what's happening here: two columns which are not pk are dependent on each other

Candidate key:
    Candidate Key is a set of one or more attributes, by using that, we can derive all other attributes
    There can be multiple Candidate keys in an Functional dependency (FD)
    A Candidate key must be minimal (i.e if we remove an attribute from a ck, we cannot derive all other attributes)

    Exa: Functional Dependencies (FDs):
        B→A
        A→C
        BC→D
        AC→BE

        Here, BC and AC are Candidate keys, if we took C from BC, it cannot derive all other attributes
        same for AC....

        another exa:
        Functional Dependencies (FDs):
        A→B
        B→C

        Consider key: AB
        Let's test its closure:
        A→B → already have B
        B→C → get C
        (AB)={A,B,C} → it determines all attributes

        Now test for minimality:
        Try just A:
        A→B, 
        B→C → so A alone gets everything
        So AB is NOT minimal — A is enough.

        So A is the minimal key
        AB is not minimal because it contains unnecessary attribute B

Super Key:
    Similar to Candidate key, but it doesnt have to be minimal
    From prev exa, AB was not minimal, so it cannot be a Candidate key, but its a Super key. (doesnt hav to be minimal)

Deriving primary keys from Candidate keys:
    All attributes included in Candidate keys are primary keys
    In prev 

composite determinant:
    If A and B together determine C, it means the functional dependency is: (A, B) → C
    This means the combination of A and B (together) determines C, not necessarily A alone or B alone.
    So, (A, B) is a composite determinant (a determinant made up of more than one attribute).
    From this, you cannot conclude that A → C or B → C individually.
    Also, C is not a determinant here; it is the dependent attribute.

    

